FIRST YEAR OF TRAINING — Short Course (23 LESSONS + GRADUATION LESSON)

Number of lessons (academic hours)
TOPICS 


KEY EDUCATIONAL RESULTS
ARTIFACTS 
Module 1. Language basics
4 (8)
Getting started with Python. Input-output functions.
Variables. Numeric data types.
Strings.
Nested constructs.
Hard Skills:
Knows the basic rules of Python syntax and has an understanding of the code formatting standard.
Knows the syntax of print(), input(), int(), str() functions.
Requests data and prints it out.
Applies integer and string data types in problem solving. Switches from one data type to another.
Performs actions with strings: sum of strings, repeating a string n times, calculating a string length, getting a string character by number, replacing a substring with another substring, dividing a string by separator.
Understands how variables’ values change when using the assignment operator.
Soft Skills:
Adheres to the plan created by the teacher.
When an error occurs, first tries to cope with it independently and then asks for help.
Attempts to analyze their bugs and prevent them in the future.
Learning materials for the entire module on the platform.
Plot employment contract to accept the position of a junior developer.
Module 2. Control structures
5 (10)
Logical data type. Conditional operator.
Nested conditional operator and conditional operator with multiple branches.
Loop: while. Counter loop.
Nested algorithmic constructions (loop to loop, conditional operator to loop, etc.).
Hard Skills:
Reads flowcharts and recognizes algorithmic structures.
Knows the syntax of basic algorithmic constructions: conditional operator and loops while and for.
Applies the logical data type when programming logical expressions.
Solves problems using conditional operators and loops.
Combines conditional statements and loops, including the use of nested constructions.
Tries to choose the best and easiest solution from the available constructions.
Soft Skills:
Adheres to the plan created by the teacher.
Understands that only a properly worded question can result in assistance.
Participates in discussions. Attempts to prove their point of view.
Checks their results against the specified criteria.
Learning materials for the entire module on the platform.
Diploma of participation in the ProTeam Programming Hackathon.
Module 3. Functions and modules
4 (8)
Creating functions. Local and global scopes.
Using one function within another.
Modules. Using the built-in modules of the standard library.
Creating modules. Connecting multiple modules.
Hard Skills:
Creates functions independently using the def operator;
Solves problems using functions, including calling one function within another.
Understands the difference between the scope of a function and the scope of a program.
Solves problems using global variables.
Uses the built-in modules of the standard Python library.
Creates modules independently and uses them to solve problems.
Soft Skills:
Adheres to the plan created by the teacher.
Participates in discussions. Explains their point of view.
Checks their results against the specified criteria.
Learning materials for the entire module on the platform.
Independent development product in the form of a software module.
Module 4. Turtle module. Maths for the developer
4 (8)
Turtle graphical module. The mathematics of the executor movement.
Conditional operator. Drawing simple geometric shapes.
Loop. Drawing polygons.
Project lesson.
Hard Skills:
Explains what an executor is using their own words. Describes the turtle as an example of an executor.
Identifies dependencies between the turtle’s movement and its units of measure (pixels, degrees).
Defines coordinates as the address of a point in space. Determines the beginning of the turtle’s movement (the beginning of the countdown) on the screen.
Solves problems of drawing different geometric shapes with the turtle.
Adjusts the executor’s color, pen thickness, and performs color fills.
Soft Skills:
Adheres to the plan created by the teacher.
Participates in discussions. Explains their point of view.
Checks their results against the specified criteria.
Learning materials for the entire module on the platform.
Creative graphic project.
Module 5. Object-oriented programming
6 (12)
Objects, their fields, and methods.
Mouse and keyboard event handling.
Classes. Class constructor
Inheritance (from ready-made or own class).
Hard Skills:
Uses their own words to explain what an object, property, method, class, child class is. Describes the relationship of object-class concepts.
Solves problems using multiple turtle objects.
Solves problems to create their own class using the constructor.
Solves problems to create a child class.
Understands that every object in OOP carries some set of data and methods (encapsulation).
Uses and supplements the properties and methods of one class in another class (inheritance).
Soft Skills:
Participates in discussions. Explains their point of view.
Attempts to overcome obstacles on their own (e.g. uses tips or checklists).
Chooses a task that is adequate to their level of knowledge.
Learning materials for the entire module on the platform.
Interactive platform game.
An application to the labor contract for transferring to the developer position.
Final Day
1 (2)
1. Summing up and refreshing the learned topics while playing.
Hard Skills:
Knows how to solve test tasks for key topics, attributes and use cases learned in Modules 1–5.
Knows how to solve debugging and programming tasks similar to those explained in Modules 1–5.
Combine their knowledge of various topics when solving the tasks.
Attempts to find the best possible solution within a limited time frame.
Soft Skills:
Knows how to work individually and with another student.
Knows how to present their project individually and with other students according to the plan suggested by the teacher.
Knows how to assess their team’s needs and participates in the allocation of available resources
Certificate of completion of the first study year.
A souvenir branded with the logo of Algorithmics.

